I have used a python module, called food network wrapper, to scrape recipes for different cuisines, so far including mexican, polish, italian, and 17 others. So far, I've scraped about 100 MB of this data in csv form. I created a set of stop words by looking at the ingredient lists for many different recipes across the different classes of foods. I eliminated these words and in the process tokenized the text. Using a small subset of this processed data (5.5 MB), I created key value pairs of occurrences for ingredients, such as {cilantro leaves: 54} or {cinnamon: 85}. I generated word clouds and bar graphs for each of the different cuisines, including or omitting three spices that I have found are widely used across ethnic cuisines - salt, garlic, and pepper.

The word clouds display the findings of this analysis best, and these figures are available through the urls. With the three spices, the different cuisine word clouds look more similar. Eliminating these spices draws out the differences better so that there is less overlap in key ingredients used. With the data I have analyzed so far, one insight the word clouds may have is that the spices used in a cuisine are important characteristics, though some are shared across many cuisines. 

According to the data, French and Polish dishes tend to contain ingredients common in baked goods and dairy products. This is partly due to the fact that searching with the keyword 'french' pulls up 'french toast' as a search result in many, but not all results. "French" dishes tend on the sweet side while Polish dishes contain ingredients like sauerkraut and onions. Greek and Italian dishes are similar, though there might be a slight emphasis on citrus ingredients in Greek cuisine that is not as present in Italian. Japanese, Korean, Thai, Chinese, and Vietnamese food share ingredients not present in other dishes, including scallions and soy sauce. However, Vietnamese food tends more towards sweetness, Korean food emphasises sesame oil, Chinese food ginger (as does Indian and Japanese food), and Thai food lime juice and cilantro leaves. As suggested on the Data Incubator blog, I thought it would be interesting to see if machine learning algorithms can pick up on these similarities in unlabelled data.

I used gensim to train an LDA (Latent Dirichlet Allocation) model and pyLDAvis.gensim to visualize the model. Using the smaller dataset, which has the virtue of having roughly equal numbers of representatives from each cuisine type and is easier to train than the large dataset, I find that about five main types of cuisines can be distinguished. One link to an interactive figure using 7 topics should be included. The figure allows one to see the most important words for each topic, and conversely, the most relevant topics for a word. I find that the model is able to recover something close to Mexican, Italian, Greek, Asian, and 'French' cuisines as different topics. So far, LDA is not able to distinguish more than that, but as more features are added and the dataset is balanced and enlarged, more cuisines will be distinguishable.

The preparation of the food is probably going to be important, so creating features from the directions is an important next step. Developing tools like LDA, classification, and dimensionality reduction are next steps in the analysis of this data set.

This project could be useful for businesses in determining which ingredients correspond to popular dishes, which are more niche, and which are less popular overall region by region, given an appropriate data set including customer ids, geographical information, and performance of products with certain ingredients in them. We can imagine discovering groups of people who like certain foods, ingredients, or preparation processes and better understanding why some foods sell better than others by region.
